got a fairly modern house a little less
than 10 years old a fully insulated
house good quality windows insulated
doors homeowners got a little bit of an
office space over the garage huh
you notice we got there fully a
continuous soffit vent thing up above
where do you start your audits the best
best start right inside it's helpful for
us to speak with a homeowner in advance
and we spoke with the homeowner here
about some of the issues in the house
which were very cold house a lot of
drafts extremely cold room over the
garage and not surprisingly high heat
bills I bet you hear those couple things
very very typical complaint it's a fully
insulated house though so how do you
kind of get to the root of the problem
luckily we've got the diagnostic
equipment such as this infrared thermal
camera all right so I'll show exactly
what's how we can utilize this take a
look at the house and see what we've got
so if it's taking pictures of
temperature what is hot what is coal for
example we'll start on this window you
can see cold is represented by black so
this big black patch right there right
all low temperature as opposed of course
the warmth of my hand oh yeah nice
bright white all right really
straightforward very easy to interpret
you can see as I pan over the studying
the woods studying so the vertical lines
the darker lines here represent the
studs and in between it it is whiter so
that's warmer because of the insulation
right the insulation has a higher
r-value than the adjacent studs so let's
start the audit well I've been through
the whole first floor I think we should
go upstairs to find out what's going on
okay
so around the corners there it gets a
little dark and you think that's because
that what does fiberglass insulation
pulled away it could be you need good
contact with the ceiling board to get
that good thermal performance it's a lot
of dark around the perimeter what's
going on in here the closer we get to
the eave the more substantial the heat
loss is boy that is really dark
this is ice cold here Kevin almost as if
it were totally uninsulated we've got
ourselves a serious problem in the attic
only we've got to get up there and check
that out
another place we always want to check
for drafts Kevin and he lost his
interior partitions
interior walls that's right for drafts
that's well let me show you some
materials with a scanner here we are a
heat of petition between the bathroom
and heated bedroom beyond so heat is
space on either side of this wall and
what are we looking at well you can see
readily see cold air between the studs
here represented in black so the studs
here are white and in a space in-between
which is darker is cold full of cold air
somehow this interior partition is
connected to the cold attic above
sometimes these interior partition can
almost act as a as a chimney or a
conduit warm air goes through the
sheetrock into the uninsulated wall and
is carried warm air rises right up into
the attic so that's another draught how
do we tackle that problem we're gonna
have to go up in the attic to see the
detail pick up dust mask okay
always a good thing to be using when we
are working around insulation and some
gloves as well so you've got some air
leaks to show me right if you recall we
were downstairs for one of the one of
the big air leaks we saw was inside the
bathroom petition that's right you
actually said the air was moving through
the wall right let's look down below
here we're right over that petition oh
my look here we are right you can
actually feel the warmth rising up you
took a giant chimney running through the
center of the house it's a heat loss
conduit dumping warm air right into the
attic and you're telling me that I can
feel that right is there any wonder that
heat bills so high
okay one of the first steps I want to do
is just create a little bit of a backer
just using some random unfaith
fiberglass material this just works as a
temporary stop this is not the air
barrier this is definitely not the air
barrier because we know that fiberglass
by itself will not stop air movement
with our fiberglass backer now in place
I can seal this with the foam let me
show you how this works
and it expands as it's applied right it
takes about 20 seconds to really cure
it's a fairly rapid and so once this
sets up that's gonna make an airtight
barrier that'll stop this chimney or
stack effect that's exactly right Kevin
look and then at that point we're gonna
put our fiberglass back down the
fiberglass will now do a good job
because it's in an airtight
configuration so Bruce a lot of these
holes that we found and a plug to sort
of in the center of this attic area or
railing below but we looked at that
thermal image a little earlier on all
the dark black spots were around the
edges here so I think that's where the
heat loss is as well we also had heat
loss out near the eave area let me show
you what's driving that particular
problem
one the insulation bat doesn't always go
all the way out to where it should so
there's a gap and that's just zero
r-value exactly number two the
particular type of vent chute used does
little to block cold air from actually
getting underneath our fiberglass bat
and cooling down the bedroom ceiling
below let me show you a little better
solution to that that if that allows for
the ventilation this is a corrugated
cardboard chute made just for that
purpose fits right into the 16 inch on
center framing mm-hmm and you just sort
of staple it to the side and it fastened
that but it also has this vertical
component to it and what that does it
blocks that and don't watch that soffit
air on top of the fiberglass so the air
is still allowed to come up through the
soffit but instead of coming this way
underneath the fiberglass or through the
fiberglass it's actually blocked and
diverted up into the rafter Bay where it
is supposed to be right very simple
solution and then you just put that in
the rafter bays all the way around okay
right then we can push off fiberglass
all the way out to where it should be
you